


Try Microsoft Edge
A fast and secure browser that's designed for Windows 10


No thanks
Get started


January 8, 2012

									|										
Steve Clayton - Editor - Microsoft News Center Staff

 A few months ago Steve wrote a post on my “tools of the trade” – basically, everything that I carry on a day-to-day basis. For a show like CES where I’m on my feet for 12+ hours each day I pare down what I carry. Below is what’s in my “CES Assault Pack” (which these days is a Swiss Gear Synergy backpack), and in my pockets. Laptop: You don’t get a nickname like “The PC Guy” without owning a lot of PCs. For a show like CES I usually carry my Lenovo ThinkPad X220. It’s a 12.5” Windows 7-powered laptop which makes it small and light enough to carry on my back all day, and with the optional 9-cell battery I can get over 8 hours of uptime – plenty for a full day of blogging. I love ThinkPads because they’re basically indestructible (which I demonstrated in my ruggedized PC video), and because they’re easily repairable in the field. Mine’s a little bit modded from standard issue; it’s packing a second-gen Intel i5, 8GB of RAM, Windows 7 Ultimate and dual SSDs (an 80GB OS drive, and a 160GB data drive).NOTE: The inspirational sticker is also not standard issue. Although it should be.Camera: I just upgraded from a Sony NEX-5 to a Sony NEX-5N. It’s a 16.1MB powerhouse that shoots 1080/60p video in a package that’s only bit bigger than a point-and-shoot. Add the removable flash and mic and it’s a perfect travel-sized all-in-one photo/video rig. Mine has an 18-55mm lens attached, and I also carry the 14mm pancake lens (not pictured) for wide shots. Phones: I carry one each of all of our US-available new phones, including the Samsung Focus S, Samsung Focus Flash, HTC Radar 4G and HTC Titan. The Titan is my current everyday carry; the huge screen is awesome for typing and texting, and the 8MP camera takes beautiful shots. I also keep a Nokia Lumia 800 in my bag (because it is, in my opinion, the most beautiful phone ever built), and the crazy awesome waterproof Toshiba-Fujitsu T1215. It doesn’t work in the US, but it’s a heck of a conversation piece.When I’m on my phone at CES I rely on a few apps – some built-in and some from the marketplace – to stay productive. My top 5 are: Other Tech: I keep a 90W Ultraslim AC/DC Combo Adapter with my X220. It lets me charge my laptop and another gadget at the same time, which comes in extremely handy at CES where outlets are at a premium  There’s one other thing that I’m bringing with me to CES – a whole bunch of these: Why? Well, that’s a secret…for now. Let’s just say that you should follow my tweets and the #smokedbywindowsphone hashtag. If you do, you might have a chance to win one of these – or.See you in Vegas!Tweet

			Dec 13, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Aug 16, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 18, 2018							  |  
						Microsoft Translator Blog 
			Apr 5, 2018							  |  
						John Roach 
			Apr 4, 2018							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 2, 2018							  |  
						John Roach Follow us:Share this page: