


Try Microsoft Edge
A fast and secure browser that's designed for Windows 10


No thanks
Get started


July 1, 2013

									|										
Steve Clayton - Editor - Microsoft News Center Staff

One category of apps that has been fairly well served on Windows 8 is food and drink. As my friends will testify, I am no cook but I am a bit of a foodie and have been known to enjoy a drop of wine now and then. Apps such as Epicurious and Allrecipes were two of the first I installed when Windows 8 was released – but in the last week, two more have caught my eye.The first is Great British Chefs, an app that almost had me licking my screen. Seriously, this app is visually stunning and takes some of the Microsoft design principles to the max – especially with the use of motion. The content is king though with stunning visuals matched by over 300 recipes from some of Britain’s finest including my favorite chef, Marcus Wareing. It’s a truly brilliant app and you can grab it now for free. The second foodie app is for Windows 8.1 from the team at Bing and is simply named Bing Food & Drink and it packs some rock star chefs too – along with one unique feature I love. The app combines recipes from publishers such as Allrecripes and food bloggers like Food 52, with tips from chefs such as Wolfgang Puck and Tom Colicchio.The unique feature is it’s designed for us on the kitchen with a hands free mode – perfect for a messy kitchen environment. With a simple hand wave in front of the computer or tablet’s camera, the pages of the recipe flip over.Oh and it has a remarkably comprehensive wine list with over 1.5 million bottles of wine covered. Everything I have searched for to date is in there, including the splendid Cakebread Cellars Pinot Noir that I recently enjoyed. So there you have it – two more killer foodie app in the Windows Store and both of them are free. Enjoy!
			Dec 13, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Aug 16, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 18, 2018							  |  
						Microsoft Translator Blog 
			Apr 5, 2018							  |  
						John Roach 
			Apr 4, 2018							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 2, 2018							  |  
						John Roach Follow us:Share this page: