


Try Microsoft Edge
A fast and secure browser that's designed for Windows 10


No thanks
Get started


September 4, 2012

									|										
Steve Clayton - Editor - Microsoft News Center Staff

 Another week on the road beckons and this time I’m headed to New York for Fashion Week. All will become clear later in the week but to tee things up, I thought I’d share one of my “What’s in my bag?” posts. My last one was posted as I left for Toronto to attend Microsoft’s Worldwide Partner Conference and technology wise, thing have changed a little since then. I’ll give you the update on that front but also (just for fun) lets start with fashion considerations for this trip.Music – First up, you need to decide on tunes for your trip. Check out my fledgling NYC Spotify playlist and feel free to add to it – some obvious stuff on there, some stuff that reminds me of previous NYC trips and some stuff that shows my age! (NB: major bummer that Snow Patrol’s New York isn’t on Spotify – one of my favorite tracks right now).Shades (which I hope will be needed) – I’ve gone for something direct from New York with Warby Parker’s x Standard collaboration. .  Jeans – I never stray far from Earnest Sewn. Not least as their store is a stones throw away from The Standard in NYC. APC are a favorite too. Shirts – English, with an American twist. Thomas Mason was founded in 1796 in Lancashire, England. They sell well in J Crew, NYC.Shoes – I have way too many shoes for a guy. This trip? Puma’s (Alexander McQueen of course), Seavees and Paul Smith.Makeup – If WPC is anything to go by, I’ll need lots of that. Fortunately, someone else is handling.  Okay, that’s the softwear. What about the hardware?  Laptop: Laptop wise, my Sony VAIO 13.1″ Z Series laptop is serving me well. It has the power I need and enough storage to take all of my music collection with me on the road thanks to the Intel Ivy Bridge Core i7, 8GB of RAM and 512GB SSD. When I get home and hook it up to the Power Media Dock, the 1gb Radeon graphic card takes the load off the inbuilt GPU and powers three external monitors at HD resolution. Of course the VAIO is now running the release version of Windows 8 too! Tablet: My Samsung Series 7 with Windows 8 is in the bag and ready to be demonstrated to fellow air travelers casting glances over the top of their iPad. Bag: The Rapha backpack shown up top of this post. Legendary and now official sponsors of the winning Tour De France team. Style never goes out of fashion.   Phone: The Nokia Lumia 800, but expect that to change….soon   Mouse (and keyboard): I’m still using the Arc Touch Mouse, which I’ll have more news on later this week, but accompanying me on this trip will be the new Wedge Touch Mouse and Wedge Mobile keyboard. The keyboard comes along to work with my Samsung Tablet and had a neat stand as part of the package. Both devices are high end fashion, if fashion to you is beautiful industrial design. Here is a Lytro shot to whet your appetite for more news on all of this gear later this week.    Camera: My Leica D-LUX 4 will be with me again and this time I am taking the Lytro as there is finally desktop software for it on Windows. Expect some “arty” fashion shots.  Connectivity: My CLEAR Spot 4G device keeps me connected in NYC – from JFK to Manhattan and when wandering the street. I expect WiFi will be at a premium during the event so this’ll be my lifesaver. On a good day I get 12mpbs down and can connect up to 8 devices. No monthly subscription and no data limits make this a killer part of my travel kit. Oh, and I never travel without an HDMI cable now – the VAIO has full HDMI out so hooking up to panels for displaying video of projects such as the Printing Dress or watching in-room Netflix is a cinch.  Sound: I still bow down to the temple of Zune HD and my beloved Bowers and Wilkins P5’s, while not noise eliminating, are frankly epic.Storage: Same Lacie P’9220 500gb drive with Porsche fashionista styling and yummy USB3 support, which the VAIO Z and Windows 8 just love.
			Dec 13, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Aug 16, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 18, 2018							  |  
						Microsoft Translator Blog 
			Apr 5, 2018							  |  
						John Roach 
			Apr 4, 2018							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 2, 2018							  |  
						John Roach Follow us:Share this page: