


Try Microsoft Edge
A fast and secure browser that's designed for Windows 10


No thanks
Get started


August 10, 2012

									|										
Steve Clayton - Editor - Microsoft News Center Staff

It’s a relatively quiet time of year – though our blistering pace will pick up again as we head in to a massive series of launches. Given that, I thought it’d be a good time to look back on some of the highlights of the year so far on the Next at Microsoft blog. Here’s five of my favorite posts from January – March.   Looking back at CES – a look inside the What’s Next booth we hosted at the Consumer Electronics Shows in Las Vegas.  Kinect for Windows is arriving – we announced the arrival of Kinect for Windows at CES and in a few short months, it has spawned some amazing creations.  Microsoft Research shows IllumiShare and blows my mind – it’s hard to believe that this project was first shown back in February of this year. I’m now fully trained to demonstrate it myself and last month we took it on the road to Worldwide Partner Conference where it was a hit. Even after six months, this technology still blows me away.  Sourcing the cars for Forza Motorsport 4  – no recap would be complete without the inclusion of Forza Motorsport 4. I know I subject readers of the blog to my own passion for Forza but hey, that’s what blogging is all about. And in this video, the team explain just how much detail goes in to the accurate recreation of the worlds finest collection of digital cars.  A More Natural Future With Technology – this blog post was taken from a feature I wrote for the inaugural PSFK Need To Know magazine that accompanied their New York conference. I was also fortunate enough to be invited to speak at the conference on the same topic and have been using that talk pretty regularly since – it seems to be well received so if you need someone to come talk for a while about the future, drop me a line!  So there are my five picks from the first 3 months of 2012 on NEXT – there is a ton of other great content hived away on the blog so be sure to check the tags on the right to surf by topic, search for keywords using the search box up top or just subscribe to our RSS feed. 
			Dec 13, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Aug 16, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 18, 2018							  |  
						Microsoft Translator Blog 
			Apr 5, 2018							  |  
						John Roach 
			Apr 4, 2018							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 2, 2018							  |  
						John Roach Follow us:Share this page: