


Try Microsoft Edge
A fast and secure browser that's designed for Windows 10


No thanks
Get started


June 8, 2011

									|										
Steve Clayton - Editor - Microsoft News Center Staff

Last month, Bing continued with their deep integration of Facebook in to search results. We’re headed to a world where my search results will look different to yours – and they should, as search becomes more personal. When I search for local restaurants in a city I’m visiting, I much prefer to see what my friends like to help me make decisions. Same with shopping, hotels etc. See below for an example that shows my friends who also like Soho House in London.  I spent some time playing with this social capability in search and it’s actually quite addictive – I found myself searching for random things just to see who showed up as having “liked” things. All of this required me to be simultaneously logged in to Facebook but that’s a given for me these days. The more I did this, the more it became clear how social search is going to grow. As Qi Lu has said, we’re moving to a world results that are influenced by popular opinion, trusted opinion and expert opinion. Social is all about trusted opinion and that’s how we tend to work in the real world. When we want to make a decision, we ask for advice of our friends. Now Bing helps you do that. One gap I spotted is not every page on the web has a Facebook Like button. Enter the Bing Bar. I should mention at this point that I have a real aversion to any type of “bars” in my browser. I love speed an in the past, additional bars in my browser have only served to slow things down – hence I installed the Bing Bar with some trepidation about 2 week ago and have yet to uninstall it. Why?Three reasonsIf you’ve not tried it, give the Bing Bar a shot or at the very least, give Bing a shot when signed in to Facebook and see your results influenced by friends (caveat: I think this only works in the US at the moment) [update] if you already have the Bing Bar and don’t see this feature, follow the link as it’s relatively new.Check out much more on this from the Bing blog or listen to Stefan wax on about it belowTweet

			Dec 13, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Aug 16, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 18, 2018							  |  
						Microsoft Translator Blog 
			Apr 5, 2018							  |  
						John Roach 
			Apr 4, 2018							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 2, 2018							  |  
						John Roach Follow us:Share this page: