


Try Microsoft Edge
A fast and secure browser that's designed for Windows 10


No thanks
Get started


June 29, 2012

									|										
Steve Clayton - Editor - Microsoft News Center Staff

I get to see lots of presentations in my role at Microsoft but few are as compelling as the one that opened the Microsoft Accelerator for Kinect Demo Day today. Jintronix kicked off the 11 presentations from the teams who have been participating in this program in Seattle for the last 13 weeks. They stood in front of a room of over 100 venture capitalists and drew spontaneous applause for their Kinect based solution that looks set to transform physical therapy and in home rehabilitation.They set a high bar that the team who followed lived up to. Each team has 7 minutes to explain who they are, why they’d just given up 3 months of their lives to be in Seattle on a beer and pizza diet and what they had created. The solutions ranged from healthcare, to retail and entertainment and almost all of them already have customers and/or funding in place. I’ve watched the so-called Kinect Effect from the beginning but this was a humbling experience to see what Kinect has enabled. I noticed a few Microsoft researchers in the room who are Kinect “hackers” themselves and though you’d imagine they’ve seen much of the potential of Kinect, they were impressed by what was being shown.The accelerator program is supported by TechStars and their CEO and co-founder David Cohen was on hand to introduce a number of the teams. Here’s a quick run down of what we saw.       After several hours of listening to the teams talk, seeing their presentations and talking to others at the event I left with a smile on my face. The teams had wowed me, they’d surprised me and they’d shown me many new ways that Kinect could change the world. It really was a fantastic day and I can’t wait to hear about the funding I’m sure they’ll all have been offered following todays event. Personally, if I were an investor with some money to seed, I’d be putting my cash into at least half of the companies I saw today. Of course I have no track record of investing so take that with a pinch of salt but from the corridor conversations I heard as I left the building, some serious investors are likely to put their money where I’m putting my mouth.Tweet

			Dec 13, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Aug 16, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 18, 2018							  |  
						Microsoft Translator Blog 
			Apr 5, 2018							  |  
						John Roach 
			Apr 4, 2018							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 2, 2018							  |  
						John Roach Follow us:Share this page: