


Try Microsoft Edge
A fast and secure browser that's designed for Windows 10


No thanks
Get started


June 11, 2012

									|										
Steve Clayton - Editor - Microsoft News Center Staff

 Last week I posted a video showing Kinect head tracking with a transparent display from a company called Second Story. This is just one of the cool things they’ve been up to of late using Kinect.Visitors to the World of Coca-Cola in Atlanta will witness more of their work. Once you step through the huge vault door at the entrance, you’re transported into a tale about the most famous and mysterious trade secret in history — the secret formula of Coca-Cola. A range of interactive experiences for visitors are powered by Kinect sensors help tell the story.Protecting the Secret is an interactive 16ft wide gaming environment that takes visitors to three locations where the formula may have been held in the past. Visitors see a representation of themselves in the story and as they move through the real world, their representation can trigger Easter eggs in the story world. Bubble-izer is a digital mirror created using Kinect that immerses visitors into Coca-Cola and transforms them into effervescent bubbles.The Secret Formula Security System Drawer features another Kinect powered installation. When visitors open a drawer in what looks like an old style pharmacy, they find a screen that immerses them in a 3D digital world with a mysterious character. Finally, the Live Positively Portrait Wall is a 22ft wide screen located in the mezzanine of the World of Coca-Cola that utilizes four Kinect sensors. When it senses the presence of a visitor, the wall reacts with a flurry of bubbles and fizzy shapes set against the backdrop of a world map. I’ll be in Atlanta in July and hope to stop by and check this out first hand. In the meantime, I’ll be back here soon with more of Second Story’s cool work very soon.Tweet

			Dec 13, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Aug 16, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 18, 2018							  |  
						Microsoft Translator Blog 
			Apr 5, 2018							  |  
						John Roach 
			Apr 4, 2018							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 2, 2018							  |  
						John Roach Follow us:Share this page: