


Try Microsoft Edge
A fast and secure browser that's designed for Windows 10


No thanks
Get started


October 14, 2013

									|										
Steve Clayton - Editor - Microsoft News Center Staff

Editor’s note: The following is a post from Ben Rudolph, The PC Guy. In a world of razor thin ultrabooks, tablets and convertibles, is there still room for a massively powerful traditional desktop PC? The mad scientists at Origin PC think so. And I think they’re right.For those of you not familiar with Origin PC, they’re a high-end custom gaming PC manufacturer based in Miami that specializes in building completely customized, super-powerful gaming desktops and laptops, including the totally off-the-wall Big O, a mini-fridge-sized PC that’s half monster gaming rig, half liquid-cooled Xbox 360. A few months ago, I picked up a full-size Origin Genesis desktop. It’s a monster: overclocked 3rd-generation Intel i7-3370, 16GB of Corsair Vengeance RAM, 240GB OCZ Vertex 3 SSD OS drive with a 2TB Barracuda data drive and screaming fast EVGA GTX 680 GPU, all hooked up to a EVGA Z75 motherboard. It’s the fastest, most powerful, best-built system I’ve ever owned.As beefy as my system is, Origin can go way bigger. 4-way SLI with EVGA GTX Titans? Check. 2TB of RAIDed SSD storage? Sure, why not. 32GB of Corsair Dominator Platinum RAM? Of course. It’s a hardware nerd’s playground; you can literally get anything you can possibly think of in a PC. The downside? It gets pricey. Origin Genesis systems start at $1900 and go way north from there. But like I always say, you get what you pay for.So why buy something this big and this hefty? If you’re a gamer, the answer is obvious – you need a powerhouse to run today’s highly demanding games at full quality. If you’re a regular user though, there’s a lot to be said about a powerful, solidly-built desktop to serve as “home base.” This is the PC on which I keep all of my family photos, videos and other important files (with the key stuff backed up to SkyDrive, of course), and the place I go to if I have a lot of intensive work to do. For example, when I have a major presentation to complete or an article to write, It’s just more ergonomic for me to work on a full-size keyboard, with a full-size mouse, on multiple displays, rather than do it all on my laptop. And gaming? Well, that’s a no brainer – nothing matches a multi-monitor experience on a desktop.If you’re in the market for a high-end gaming machine or an investment desktop to be your digital hub, you can’t go wrong with Origin. You can find them online (and build your dream system) at www.originpc.com.(NOTE: Big thanks to EVGA for outfitting my Genesis with such an awesome GPU and motherboard!)
			Dec 13, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Aug 16, 2017							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 18, 2018							  |  
						Microsoft Translator Blog 
			Apr 5, 2018							  |  
						John Roach 
			Apr 4, 2018							  |  
						Allison Linn 
			Apr 2, 2018							  |  
						John Roach Follow us:Share this page: